ENGLISH

APPLE INC.
SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR macOS Mojave
For use on Apple-branded Systems

PLEASE READ THIS SOFTWARE LICENSE AGREEMENT (“LICENSE”) CAREFULLY BEFORE USING THE APPLE SOFTWARE.  BY USING THE APPLE SOFTWARE, YOU ARE AGREEING TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE.  IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE, DO NOT INSTALL AND/OR USE THE APPLE SOFTWARE AND, IF PRESENTED WITH THE OPTION TO “AGREE” OR “DISAGREE” TO THE TERMS, CLICK “DISAGREE”. IF YOU ACQUIRED THE APPLE SOFTWARE AS PART OF AN APPLE HARDWARE PURCHASE AND IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THE TERMS OF THIS LICENSE, YOU MAY RETURN THE ENTIRE APPLE HARDWARE/SOFTWARE PACKAGE WITHIN THE RETURN PERIOD TO THE APPLE STORE OR AUTHORIZED DISTRIBUTOR WHERE YOU OBTAINED IT FOR A REFUND, SUBJECT TO APPLE’S RETURN POLICY FOUND AT https://www.apple.com/legal/sales-support/. YOU MUST RETURN THE ENTIRE HARDWARE/SOFTWARE PACKAGE IN ORDER TO OBTAIN A REFUND.

IMPORTANT NOTE: To the extent that this software may be used to reproduce, modify, publish or distribute materials, it is licensed to you only for reproduction, modification, publication and distribution of non-copyrighted materials, materials in which you own the copyright, or materials you are authorized or legally permitted to reproduce, modify, publish or distribute. If you are uncertain about your right to copy, modify, publish or distribute any material, you should contact your legal advisor.

1. General.
A. The Apple software (including Boot ROM code), any third party software, documentation, interfaces, content, fonts and any data accompanying this License whether preinstalled on Apple-branded hardware, on disk, in read only memory, on any other media or in any other form (collectively the “Apple Software”) are licensed, not sold, to you by Apple Inc. (“Apple”) for use only under the terms of this License. Apple and/or Apple’s licensors retain ownership of the Apple Software itself and reserve all rights not expressly granted to you. You agree that the terms of this License will apply to any Apple-branded application software product that may be preinstalled on your Apple-branded hardware, unless such product is accompanied by a separate license, in which case you agree that the terms of that license will govern your use of that product.

B. Apple, at its discretion, may make available future upgrades or updates to the Apple Software for your Apple-branded computer. Upgrades and updates, if any, may not necessarily include all existing software features or new features that Apple releases for newer or other models of Apple-branded computers. The terms of this License will govern any software upgrades or updates provided by Apple that replace and/or supplement the original Apple Software product, unless such upgrade or update is accompanied by a separate license in which case the terms of that license will govern.

C. Title and intellectual property rights in and to any content displayed by or accessed through the Apple Software belongs to the respective content owner. Such content may be protected by copyright or other intellectual property laws and treaties, and may be subject to terms of use of the third party providing such content. Except as otherwise provided herein, this License does not grant you any rights to use such content nor does it guarantee that such content will continue to be available to you.

2. Permitted License Uses and Restrictions.
A. Preinstalled and Single-Copy Apple Software License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, unless you obtained the Apple Software from the Mac App Store, through an automatic download or under a volume license, maintenance or other written agreement from Apple, you are granted a limited, non-exclusive license to install, use and run one (1) copy of the Apple Software on a single Apple-branded computer at any one time. For example, these single-copy license terms apply to you if you obtained the Apple Software preinstalled on Apple-branded hardware.

B. Mac App Store License. If you obtained a license for the Apple Software from the Mac App Store or through an automatic download, then subject to the terms and conditions of this License and as permitted by the Services and Content Usage Rules set forth in the Apple Media Services Terms and Conditions (https://www.apple.com/legal/internet-services/itunes/) (“Usage Rules”), you are granted a limited, non-transferable, non-exclusive license:

(i) to download, install, use and run for personal, non-commercial use, one (1) copy of the Apple Software directly on each Apple-branded computer running macOS High Sierra, macOS Sierra, OS X El Capitan, OS X Yosemite, OS X Mavericks, OS X Mountain Lion or OS X Lion (“Mac Computer”) that you own or control;

(ii) If you are a commercial enterprise or educational institution, to download, install, use and run one (1) copy of the Apple Software for use either: (a) by a single individual on each of the Mac Computer(s) that you own or control, or (b) by multiple individuals on a single shared Mac Computer that you own or control. For example, a single employee may use the Apple Software on both the employee’s desktop Mac Computer and laptop Mac Computer, or multiple students may serially use the Apple Software on a single Mac Computer located at a resource center or library; and

(iii) to install, use and run up to two (2) additional copies or instances of the Apple Software within virtual operating system environments on each Mac Computer you own or control that is already running the Apple Software, for purposes of: (a) software development; (b) testing during software development; (c) using macOS Server; or (d) personal, non-commercial use.

The grant set forth in Section 2B(iii) above does not permit you to use the virtualized copies or instances of the Apple Software in connection with service bureau, time-sharing, terminal sharing or other similar types of services.

C. Volume or Maintenance License. If you obtained the Apple Software under a volume or maintenance license program with Apple, the terms of your volume or maintenance license will determine the number of copies of the Apple Software you are permitted to download, install, use and run on Apple-branded computers you own or control.  Except as agreed to in writing by Apple, all other terms and conditions of this License shall apply to your use of the Apple Software obtained under a volume or maintenance license.

D. System Requirements; Apple ID. Please note that the Apple Software is supported on only Apple-branded hardware that meets specified system requirements as indicated by Apple. In addition, use of and access to certain features of the Apple Software and certain Services (as defined in Section 5) may require you to apply for a unique user name and password combination, known as an Apple ID.

E. Fonts. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, you may use the fonts included with the Apple Software to display and print content while running the Apple Software; however, you may only embed fonts in content if that is permitted by the embedding restrictions accompanying the font in question. These embedding restrictions can be found in the Font Book/Preview/Show Font Info panel.

F. Voices. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, you may use the system voices included in the Apple Software (“System Voices”) (i) while running the Apple Software and (ii) to create your own original content and projects for your personal, non-commercial use. No other use of the System Voices is permitted by this License, including but not limited to the use, reproduction, display, performance, recording, publishing or redistribution of any of the System Voices in a profit, non-profit, public sharing or commercial context.

G. Photos App Features and Support. The Photos application of the Apple Software (“Photos App”) may not support some video and photo formats. Use of some features of the Photos App will depend on the features of your camera. Synchronizing photos with the Photos App and any Apple or third party services may result in loss of data. The slideshow graphics, music and themes included with the Photos App are only for personal, non-commercial use in slideshows you create using the Photos App. You may not use, extract or distribute, commercially or otherwise, on a standalone basis, any photographs, images, graphics, artwork, audio, video or similar assets (“Digital Materials”) contained within, or provided as a part of, the Photos App, or otherwise use the Digital Materials outside the context of its intended use as part of the Photos App.

H. Content Caching Features.
1.  To the extent that Apple and/or its affiliates make particular software and/or content available for caching (e.g., applicable content from the Mac App Store) (“Apple Eligible Content”), certain features of the Apple Software (the “Content Caching Features”) may automatically download and locally cache such Apple Eligible Content on your Apple-branded computer that is running the Apple Software (for purposes of this Section, such Apple-branded computer is referred to as the “Caching Enabled Mac”).  By using the Content Caching Features of the Apple Software, you agree that Apple may download and cache such Apple Eligible Content on your Caching Enabled Mac.  You can turn off the Content Caching Features of the Apple Software at any time by going to Sharing under System Preferences on your Caching Enabled Mac.

2.  The Content Caching Features of the Apple Software are for use only on a Caching Enabled Mac you own or control and solely for purposes of expediting the delivery of such Apple Eligible Content to authorized end users within your home, company or organization.  You understand that such users may need to separately authenticate with Apple prior to receiving the Apple Eligible Content and that the expedited delivery of Apple Eligible Content through the use of your Caching Enabled Mac will not modify the terms under which you or your end users receive such Apple Eligible Content. 

3.  You acknowledge and agree that all use of the Apple Eligible Content is subject to the applicable license terms that govern the type of Apple Eligible Content being cached.  These terms may include, but are not limited to, the Apple Media Services Terms and Conditions, the iCloud Terms and Conditions, the iTunes U Instructor Agreement, the iTunes U Software License Agreement, and/or the applicable licensing terms that accompanied the software being downloaded, unless the download was accompanied by its own separate license agreement in which case the latter would apply.  A list of Apple Software License Agreements (SLAs) may be found here: https://www.apple.com/legal/sla/.  You acknowledge and agree that the use of the Content Caching Features and storage of Apple Eligible Content on your Caching Enabled Mac does not transfer to you any rights beyond those granted to you in the applicable license terms for the Apple Eligible Content and shall not constitute a grant, waiver, or other limitation of any rights of Apple or any other copyright owners in any Apple Eligible Content.

4.  You are not authorized to deploy your Caching Enabled Mac with the Content Caching Features enabled on a network you do not own or control (or which you are not legally authorized to use for such purposes), or to permit access to such Apple Eligible Content from end users outside of your home, company or organization.  You agree to only use the Content Caching Features for your own personal, non-commercial use or for internal use within your company or organization, and only as expressly permitted herein.  You may not provide a service to third parties that integrates with or leverages services or information provided by the Content Caching Features or uses the Content Caching Features in any way.

5.  By enabling the Content Caching Features of the Apple Software, you agree that Apple may store, monitor, and secure the Apple Eligible Content on your Caching Enabled Mac, and may collect and use technical information about your Caching Enabled Mac and related networks, including but not limited to, hardware identifiers and IP addresses, for such purposes.  You agree not to disable, disrupt, hack, circumvent, or otherwise interfere with Apple’s verification, storage or authentication mechanisms, digital signing, digital rights management, or other security mechanisms implemented in or by the Apple Software, services, the Apple Eligible Content, or other Apple software or technology, or to enable others to do so.  

6.  Apple reserves the right to stop making Apple Eligible Content available for caching on your Caching Enabled Mac (e.g., some content that you may have previously cached may not be available for subsequent caching) and to remove any cached Apple Eligible Content from your Caching Enabled Macs at any time in its sole discretion, and Apple shall have no liability to you in such event.  You understand that such caching of Apple Eligible Content may not be available in all countries or regions.  You may remove the cached Apple Eligible Content and disable the Content Caching Features at any time.

I. Remote Desktop Connections.  Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, when remotely connecting from another computer or electronic device (each a “Device”) to an Apple-branded computer that is running the Apple Software (for purposes of this Section, such Apple-branded computer is referred to as the “Home Mac”), whether through the Screen Sharing feature or through any other means:

(i) only one (1) Device may remotely connect at any one time, whether directly or indirectly, to control the graphical desktop session of the Apple Software that is running and being displayed on the Home Mac; and

(ii) a reasonable number of Devices may remotely connect at the same time for the sole purpose of simultaneously observing the same graphical desktop session of the Apple Software that is running and being displayed on the Home Mac, as long as they do not control the Apple Software in any way; but

(iii) only one (1) Apple-branded Device may remotely connect at any one time, whether directly or indirectly, to control a separate graphical desktop session of the Apple Software that is different from the one running and being displayed on the Home Mac, and such connection may only be made through the Screen Sharing feature of the Apple Software.

Except as expressly permitted in this Section 2I, or except as otherwise licensed by Apple, you agree not to use the Apple Software, or any of its functionality, in connection with service bureau, time-sharing, terminal sharing or other similar types of services, whether such services are being provided within your own organization or to third parties.

J. Other Use Restrictions. The grants set forth in this License do not permit you to, and you agree not to, install, use or run the Apple Software on any non-Apple-branded computer, or to enable others to do so. Except as otherwise permitted by the terms of this License or otherwise licensed by Apple: (i) only one user may use the Apple Software at a time, and (ii) you may not make the Apple Software available over a network where it could be run or used by multiple computers at the same time. You may not rent, lease, lend, sell, redistribute or sublicense the Apple Software.

K. Backup Copy. You may make one copy of the Apple Software (excluding the Boot ROM code and other Apple firmware that is embedded or otherwise contained in Apple-branded hardware) in machine-readable form for backup purposes only; provided that the backup copy must include all copyright or other proprietary notices contained on the original. Apple Boot ROM code and firmware is provided only for use on Apple-branded hardware and you may not copy, modify or redistribute the Apple Boot ROM code or firmware, or any portions thereof.

L. Migration of Existing Software. If you use Setup/Migration Assistant to transfer software from one Apple-branded computer to another Apple-branded computer, please remember that continued use of the original copy of the software may be prohibited once a copy has been transferred to another computer, unless you already have a licensed copy of such software on both computers. You should check the relevant software license agreements for applicable terms and conditions. Third party software and services may not be compatible with this Apple Software and installation of this Apple Software may affect the availability and usability of such third party software or services.

M. Open Source. Certain components of the Apple Software, and third party open source programs included with the Apple Software, have been or may be made available by Apple on its Open Source web site (https://www.opensource.apple.com/) (collectively the “Open-Sourced Components”). You may modify or replace only these Open-Sourced Components; provided that: (i) the resultant modified Apple Software is used, in place of the unmodified Apple Software, on Apple-branded computers you own or control, as long as each such Apple computer has a properly licensed copy of the Apple Software on it; and (ii) you otherwise comply with the terms of this License and any applicable licensing terms governing use of the Open-Sourced Components. Apple is not obligated to provide any updates, maintenance, warranty, technical or other support, or services for the resultant modified Apple Software. You expressly acknowledge that if failure or damage to Apple hardware results from modification of the Open-Sourced Components of the Apple Software, such failure or damage is excluded from the terms of the Apple hardware warranty.

N. No Reverse Engineering. You may not, and you agree not to or enable others to, copy (except as expressly permitted by this License or by the Usage Rules if they are applicable to you), decompile, reverse engineer, disassemble, attempt to derive the source code of, decrypt, modify, or create derivative works of the Apple Software or any services provided by the Apple Software or any part thereof (except as and only to the extent any foregoing restriction is prohibited by applicable law or by licensing terms governing use of Open-Sourced Components that may be included with the Apple Software).

O. Compliance with Laws. You agree to use the Apple Software and the Services (as defined in Section 5 below) in compliance with all applicable laws, including local laws of the country or region in which you reside or in which you download or use the Apple Software and Services. Features of the Apple Software and the Services may not be available in all languages or regions and some features may vary by region. An Internet connection is required for some features of the Apple Software and Services.

P. Third Party Software. Apple has provided as part of the Apple Software package, and may provide as an upgrade, update or supplement to the Apple Software, access to certain third party software or services as a convenience. To the extent that the Apple Software contains or provides access to any third party software or services, Apple has no express or implied obligation to provide any technical or other support for such software or services. Please contact the appropriate software vendor, manufacturer or service provider directly for technical support and customer service related to its software, service and/or products.

Q. Automatic Updates. The Apple Software will periodically check with Apple for updates to the Apple Software. If an update is available, the update may automatically download and install onto your computer and, if applicable, your peripheral devices. By using the Apple Software, you agree that Apple may download and install automatic updates onto your computer and your peripheral devices. You can turn off automatic updates altogether at any time by changing the automatic updates settings found within System Preferences.

3. Transfer.
A. If you obtained the Apple Software preinstalled on Apple-branded hardware or if you obtained your license to the Apple Software from the Mac App Store or through a software update, you may make a one-time permanent transfer of all of your license rights to the Apple Software (in its original form as provided by Apple) to another party, provided that: (i) the Apple Software is transferred together with your Apple-branded hardware; (ii) the transfer must include all of the Apple Software, including all its component parts and this License; (iii) you do not retain any copies of the Apple Software, full or partial, including copies stored on a computer or other storage device; and (iv) the party receiving the Apple Software reads and agrees to accept the terms and conditions of this License. For purposes of this License, if Apple provides an update (e.g., version 10.14 to 10.14.1) to the Apple Software, the update is considered part of the Apple Software and may not be transferred separately from the pre-update version of the Apple Software.

B. You may not transfer any Apple Software that has been modified or replaced under Section 2M above. All components of the Apple Software are provided as part of a bundle and may not be separated from the bundle and distributed as standalone applications. Note that the Apple Software provided with a particular Apple-branded hardware product might not run on other models of Apple-branded hardware.

C. Any copy of the Apple Software that may be provided by Apple for promotional, evaluation, diagnostic or restorative purposes may be used only for such purposes and may not be resold or transferred.

4. Consent to Use of Data. When you use the various communication features of the Apple Software, such as iMessage and FaceTime, with your computer, the Apple ID information you provide, your email address(es), certain unique identifiers for your computer and your iPhone’s telephone number are sent to Apple in order to allow others to reach you.  When you use iMessage, Apple may hold your messages in encrypted form for a limited period of time in order to ensure their delivery. You may turn off FaceTime or iMessage by going to the FaceTime or Messages preferences on your Mac. Certain features like Analytics, Location Services, Siri, Dictation and Spotlight may require information from your computer to provide their respective functions. When you turn on or use these features, details will be provided regarding what information is sent to Apple and how the information may be used.  You can learn more by visiting https://www.apple.com/privacy/. At all times your information will be treated in accordance with Apple’s Privacy Policy, which can be viewed at: https://www.apple.com/legal/privacy/.

5. Services and Third Party Materials.
A. General.  The Apple Software may enable access to Apple’s iTunes Store, Mac App Store, Game Center, iCloud, Maps and other Apple and third party services and web sites (collectively and individually, “Services”). Use of these Services requires Internet access and use of certain Services may require an Apple ID, may require you to accept additional terms and may be subject to additional fees. By using this software in connection with an iTunes Store account, Apple ID, Game Center account, iCloud account or other Apple account, you agree to the applicable terms of service for that account, such as the latest Apple Media Services Terms and Conditions or Game Center Terms and Conditions, which you may access and review at https://www.apple.com/legal/internet-services/itunes/, or the iCloud Terms and Conditions which can be found at https://www.apple.com/legal/internet-services/icloud/, respectively.

B. If you sign up for iCloud, certain iCloud features like “iCloud Drive”, “My Photo Stream”, “iCloud Photo Sharing” and “Find My Mac” may be accessed directly from the Apple Software.  You acknowledge and agree that your use of iCloud and these features is subject to the latest terms and conditions of the iCloud service, which you may access and review at: https://www.apple.com/legal/internet-services/icloud/.

C. News App Content. Your use of content accessed through the News application is limited solely to personal, noncommercial use, does not transfer any ownership interest to you in the content, and specifically excludes, without limitation, any commercial or promotional use rights in such content.  Furthermore, you are prohibited from republishing, retransmitting and reproducing any images accessed through News as a stand-alone file.

D. Maps. The maps service and features of the Apple Software (“Maps”), including map data coverage, may vary by region. When you use any location-based features within Maps, such as traffic and local search, various location-related and usage information may be sent to Apple, including the real-time geographic location of your computer, in order to process your request and help improve Maps. Such location and usage data is collected by Apple in a form that does not personally identify you. By using Maps, you agree and consent to Apple’s and its subsidiaries’ and agents’ transmission, collection, maintenance, processing, and use of this information to provide and improve the Maps features and service, and other Apple products and services. Apple may also provide such information, in either an aggregated or non personally identifiable form, to its partners and licensees to help improve their map and location-based products and services. You may disable the location-based functionality of Maps by going to the Location Services setting on your computer and turning off the individual location setting for Maps. Certain Maps features will, however, be unavailable if you disable the Location Services setting.

E. You understand that by using any of the Services, you may encounter content that may be deemed offensive, indecent, or objectionable, which content may or may not be identified as having explicit language, and that the results of any search or entering of a particular URL may automatically and unintentionally generate links or references to objectionable material. Nevertheless, you agree to use the Services at your sole risk and that Apple, its affiliates, agents, principals, or licensors shall have no liability to you for content that may be found to be offensive, indecent, or objectionable.

F. Certain Services may display, include or make available content, data, information, applications or materials from third parties (“Third Party Materials”) or provide links to certain third party web sites. By using the Services, you acknowledge and agree that Apple is not responsible for examining or evaluating the content, accuracy, completeness, timeliness, validity, 
